# Background for Users
Puzzleverse aims to create a social environment for creating and solving
environmental point-and-click worlds created by other players. It is heavily
inspired by Cyan's _Myst Online: Uru Live_ and the fan-created worlds (_Ages_).
This document will explain what you, as as a player, should expect from the
game. It will make reference to concepts from the _Myst_ series, but this is
for convince of _Myst_ players; no understanding of _Myst_ or _Uru_ is
required.

The game is online-only play and players must create an account with a server.
Servers are independently run but players from one server can interact with
players from another server (_i.e._, it is a _federated_ system).

## Design Pillars
_Storytelling_: Players should be able to create narrative stories that other players can explore though puzzle solving.

_Community_: The game should be a place where players want to congregate, spend time socialising, and work on puzzles together. Chatting is a core component of the experience.

_Exploration_: There should be as much world as possible for players to discover and experience. Cyan's _Riven_ was described as being a budget holiday; this should be the same.

_Distinctive Worlds_: Each world should be distinctive (if the designer chooses this).

## Summary
In the Cyan games, Cyan creates fantastic worlds in service of telling stories
about people. The puzzles in each world are a kind of friction that forces
players to interact with and understand the world and so come to understand the
narrative.

Creating the world is a huge effort in that it requires a huge variety of
skills: the storytelling skill to imagine the world, the artistic skill to
render it, the logic skills to design the puzzles, and the programming skill to
develop software. This game is meant to assist storytellers by removing the
programming requirement and providing ways to share and reuse the art and
puzzle components.

The goal is to make it so anyone who has a story can tell it and to build a
community of people who are both producers and consumers of stories.

## Starting Off
After registering with a server, you can install a client on your computer and
log into that server. Your client can login to any server where you have an
account. Every player is identified as _player_`@`_example.com_.

When you log in, you will be taken to your home world (_realm_). At any time,
you can choose to travel to another realm, including your home realm. The
directory tool allows you to find realms. There are a few ways to locate a
realm:

- it is a realm that you created
- it is a _public_ realm on your server
- it is a public realm on another server
- it is a realm you have bookmarked
- the address has been shared by another method

Each realm has a URL that can be placed in other programs used in other
programs (_e.g._, shared in email or Twitter). Every realm has a player that
owns that realm. The owner can choose to place that realm in the public
directory for their server, so that other players can easily find it. You can
also choose to list your realms in the public directory for your server. There
is no master list of servers, so accessing the public directory requires
knowing the name of the server.

Whether a realm is public or private, the owner can choose who can access the
realm using setting similar to the _Share_ options in Google Drive. The server
administrator can also apply access rules.

## Understanding Realms
A realm is a world that another player has created for your enjoyment. Realms
are meant to have simple point-and-click interfaces where you can move around
the world and interact with items in that world. Interacting with the world,
including walking around, can trigger changes in the world. The idea is that
there are puzzles embedded in the world and you and other players can work
together to understand and solve the puzzles. Each realm is also a chat room,
where players in the realm can communicate (ostensibly to solve puzzles
collaboratively, but also socially).

The puzzle lives on the server, so all player are collaboratively solving the
same puzzle. If you are disconnected, you can return to the realm and find the
puzzle in the state you left it.

When a designer creates a realm, they're really creating a template for a
realm. Any player can create their own _instance_ of a realm. Depending on the
designer's wishes, each instance may be slightly different. To create your own
instance of a realm, you either need the identifier of a realm template (called
an _asset identifier_), which is a long string of numbers and letters, or be in
a realm you wish to have.

Some realms have customisations that you can control, called _settings_. What
settings a realm has are chosen by the designer, but you can change them at
will.

You can also choose to erase a realm that you own. It will no longer be
available to you or other players.

## Train-car Mode
In the TV series [_Infinity Train_](https://infinity-train.fandom.com/),
characters travel through a series of train cars, each with a separate world
inside, where the characters must travel solve puzzles to unlock the door
allowing them to proceed to the next car. Puzzleverse has a "train mode" where
the administrator can add appropriate realms to a list and you can play through
them in a random order.

Train realms are not really different from regular realms except that they have
a goal that is supposed to send you to the next train car. If a train realm is
created directly (rather than through the automatic disc-jockey mechanism), the
goal will send you to your home realm. This will also happen when the queue of
realms is empty. If new realms are added by your administrator, a new realm
will be automatically created. In the realm navigator, train car realms will be
marked with their sequence number.

The realm navigator will allow you start a train.

## Other Features
Like any good social network, the system also supports direct messages between
players of any server. There are also access controls if you wish to block
receiving direct messages from other players or all players on a server.

The server can also track bookmarks for realms, other players, and assets.
