# Glossary
This describes the terms used through out the system for talkinga about players, places, and the connections between. Some of these have more technical descriptions to explain how they work; that might not be necessary to use them.

- _Applet_ - All locations allow multiplayers to interact with each other and something. The applet determines how all of that interaction happens. A _realm_ and _editor_ are both applets. Players can create locations connected to any type of applet, though realms would be the most common. _Technical:_ An applet has both a front-end and back-end. The front-end runs on the client and back-end runs on the server (or on the client when hosting). Each applet has an internal communication protocol that is proxied by the server between player's client and the backend. Applets cannot communicate with each other or make changes to the server beyond journaling their state. The server can evict a backend when no players are using it and an applet must be able to load and store its state. The backend is run as a single thread and must handle all the events generated by different players. The backend can dispatch messages (in its own custom format) to all or select connected players and the server infrastructure will provide proper routing. The backend can also use timers. From a UNIX perspective, a backend can be thought of as a process that can `select` on user-input with a timeout.
- _Asset_ - Every game world or component there of exists in the system as a unique asset. _Technical:_ An asset is identified by a SHA-3 hash of the Message Pack-encoded data structure.
- _Location_ - A shared space that can be accessed. All locations are some kind of _applet_, including a _realm_. Locations have an associated group chat for all connected players. Locations can run on a server or be _hosted_ by a player of that server. A hosted location can only be access as long as the host is connected and sharing. Every location has an _access control list_ associated with it to decide who can enter and administrate that location.
- _Player identifier_ - a unique identifier for a player. It can be local (only an account name) or remote (account name and server name).
- _Player_ - a human playing on the network. Each player has an account name on a particular server; these combine to form a _player identifier_. Players on the same server are _local players_.
- _Realm_ - A game space for players to have fun in. Each realm also functions as a group chat for all the players connected. Realms are independent, so no puzzle information can be shared between realms, though one realm can send players to another realm. Every realm is defined by the _asset_ that defines the world and the _player identifier_ that owns it. A player can only have one realm for any asset (_i.e._, no duplicate worlds).
- _Server_ - a computer, connected to the Internet running the Spadina server software. Each server has player accounts and locations. It functions as an access point to the whole network for players with accounts on it and can allow players from other servers to communicate with players on that server and access locations on it. Anything _local_ is on the same server as the player's account, while anything _remote_ is on a different server. _Technical:_ A server is uniquely identified by a DNS name and the identity of a server is verified by requiring SSL. When servers communicate, the originating server sends a JWT  and DNS name to the answering server (this is when the originating server can do SSL verification of the answering server). The answering server then opens a connection to the originating server (this is when the answering server can do SSL verification of the originating server) and passes the JWT. If the JWT is valid, then a bi-direction peer WebSocket connection can be established.
